---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Research statement
category: about-me
tags: [ 'science', 'oceanography', 'about-me']
---

I am a scientist studying oceanography at [Scripps Institution of Oceanography](https://scripps.ucsd.edu),
 [UC San Diego](https://ucsd.edu). As a physical oceanography, I strive to understand how the ocean works,
  and its relation to the climate system. In particular, I seek to characterize the structure and dynamics of highly energetic flows
  in the upper ocean such as coherent vortical structures, jets, waves, and turbulent cascades. 

In my research,  I attempt to break
  artificial barriers that separate theory, high-performance computing, and analysis of observations
  in oceanography. It is time to move past silly statements like "I do not believe in models" or "these theories have not to do with the real ocean". The solution to the great scientific problems of the 21st century will require a judicious combination theory, computational modeling, and observations.  In fact, I strive to integrate methods and practices of applied mathematics, fluid mechanics, environmental and geophysical fluid dynamics, high-performance computing, and big data.

While I focus on problems, I do spend significant fraction of my time working on methods. It is very important to 
 produce version-controlled, unit-tested software. It is valuable to understand the details of how a particular
 instrument works. It is essential to test different numerical methods and algorithms (and to come up with new ones).
  And it is vital to perform sensitivity analyses. 

I am fortunate to have the opportunity to spend most of my time thinking about the natural. 
I'm committed to produce honest and reproducible scientific knowledge. 
Towards that end, I use free software, and I share data, code and notes.

